hey this is presto Walker I have found
three consecutive integers such that
their product is equal to their sum what
could my numbers be solve for all
possibilities I received this problem by
email and I give credit to Ken Edwards
for creating this puzzle can you figure
it out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
the solution let's suppose the middle
number is X then the three consecutive
numbers would be X minus 1 X and X plus
1 we need the product of these three
numbers to be equal to their sum this
means X minus 1 times X times the
quantity X plus 1 needs to be equal to X
minus 1 plus X plus X plus 1 we can
simplify the sum to be exactly 3x we can
find the product slightly easier if we
multiply X minus 1 times X plus 1
because this will lead to a difference
of squares x squared minus 1 squared
which is 1 we then distribute the X and
we get X cubed minus X is equal to 3x we
now group the X terms on the left hand
side and we have the cubic equation x
cubed minus 4x is equal to 0 we can then
factor out the X and then we have x
times the quantity x squared minus 4
this is a difference of squares which we
can factor as the quantities X plus 2
and X minus 2 we can now see there are
three solutions to this equation x
equals 0 x equals negative 2 and x
equals 2
each of these solutions will lead to a
triplet of numbers we have 1
case of -1 0 & 1 we have another case of
negative 3 negative 2 negative 1 and we
have a final case of 1 2 & 3 and these
are the only triplets of consecutive
integers in which their sum is equal to
the product did you figure it out thanks
for watching this video please subscribe
to my channel I make videos on Matt you
can catch me on my blog mind your
decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at pressure
Walker and if you like this video please
check out my books there are links in
the video description